Okay, so we've now talked about
cross-modal reducers, we have TypeScript
support, we have the beginnings of
a robust and beautiful test suite.
It's got one test.
It's the beginnings, right?
Good things start small.
I think the one thing in just regular
Redux that we want to talk about a little
bit is, yeah I saw some questions in
the chat in the very beginning about
the book promises, right?
And one of the things I'm gonna say is
we'll also look at RTK query which is kind
of a little bit separate from the state
management piece, but does have a,
it's if Redux toolkit is the batteries
included version of Redux and
RTK query, which you don't actually
even need to be using Redux for.
Is for a lot more of the data fetching
pieces and caching and invalidating, and
I'll kind of like mostly just give like
a high level tour of that cuz that's
probably a long conversation ended
up itself that is adjacent but
like maybe not the exact same topic.
But I'll show both of them to you cuz one
is like, you can get start with both of
them pretty easily but we'll take a look
about them, you can figure out which
one is appropriate for you and
to navigate around that.
So previously on Redux,
Redux was completely unaware of the idea
that asynchrony could exist, right?
It's simply, like I said before,
function, currency of the world, action,
new thing comes out.
That's it.
Middleware, maybe, right?
And middleware just gave you the ability
to fire off more stuff based on the first
thing that came in.
And do side effects.
One of those side effects could be wait
for the, get this thing action to come in,
get the thing, and
then fire off the second one, right?
And like there was a library cold Redux
thunk, which some of this might be my
ageing memory but I remember
correctly Dami went off wrote it and
like at first it was just kind of
a demo to show how middleware worked.
I don't know that he fully expected it
become like the de facto way that everyone
did a think, there was like Redux
promise there are some very
Sophisticated libraries out there.
I think some of the previous versions
of the state mandatorys they've done,
we talk about like Redux observable and
I think in earlier one, Redux saga.
And Redux observable uses like Rx js and
there's a crazy stuff that you can do in
the middleware as well and
some interesting libraries built on that.
And if you know that you need the stuff
in redux observable, absolutely go ahead,
drop that in as a middleware,
do it but generally speaking,
you probably have a very sophisticated
use case that you need to do that.
And it lets you start and pause and
do all sorts of, use all of xjs and
all of the observables in this flow which
is definitely necessary sometimes but
maybe slightly overkill most of the time.
I say that somebody who worked on a very
large app that did it like it was
useful for us but
like we were doing lots of stuff with it,
I don't reach for it every time.
Cool.
But, so let's talk about what is built in
and ready to go in the case that you're
not gonna reach for something fully, large
with an entire, learning curve investment.
Let's say you have a situation where
you would like to call an API.
So I heard you'd like to call an API, and
let's do it for
in this case creating a new task.
I don't know if we wired that up yet.
We have add task but we'll show how
this works cuz a lot of times you'll say
there's a difference between firing off
the request and hearing that it came back.
Those are actions.
Right, or at least hearing the state that
it came back, put in your store
is still as it always was, right?
You'll be like this thing came back,
I might choose to put in the store so
on and so forth,
there might be other ways.
And you could do things optimistic
updates, which is, they hit the button,
add it to the list, right, immediately
if the promise comes back rejected,
take it back out and put an error, right?
To simulate, especially for
things that are pretty reliable.
As somebody who works on
an application where the development
version is running
locally on their machine,
and I'm not going over a network
sometimes in our cloud offering I am.
But when it's running the machine,
I'm not,
I can be highly confident in those cases,
that is gonna work, right,
especially cuz I have literally
an environment variable that tells me.
So yeah, there's stuff that
you can do in that case.
But I'm gonna show you the primitives
how you choose to strategize around
it is obviously gonna matter for
your particular situation and your app.
So let's look at how it works.
It does happen kind of
outside of this object here.
But the good thing is anything
that happens outside of this
object can be handled in here.
And I should note we saw create action
at the very beginning of this workshop.
You can make actions don't
belong to any reducer.
And then add them in on extra reducers.
Do I have an example of one you would do?
I don't.
[LAUGH] If you had something that happens
in your application, and
it doesn't actually belong,
it's not just reducer to or
slice to slice.
It can be just any action anywhere
that's defined, all right?
So with all that preamble,
we've got create async thunk and
if the signature looks a lot
like create action to you.
Yes.
Right, so here we can say,
it says tasks, tasks, tasks/fetch or
create task or what did I wanna do.
I want to fetch a skim from the API.
So instead of loading if that data source,
like Warren farmer this JSON, and
we actually hit the fake API that I
have running alongside this application,
awesome.
And so really in this case,
we give it an async function.
In the same way that we
get give arguments here,
you can pass in arguments to this case,
I just want to hit the basic API.
So response.
I will say that this is
going to await fetch
API/tasks.
Could I just get that and
then call responses to JSON?
I could.
I just don't want to.
I like promise chains.
So we've got that in place and
then with that, I might just return the,
I know that the API is not just the array.
It's tasks, a task key on there.
>> Where does createAsyncThunk come from?
>> Yeah, it is part of Redux toolkit
here so you get it for free.
And like I said, I will repeat it again.
Anything you see, you can have it all,
you can just sample pieces from this-
>> Sir, everytime people
talk about redux-thunk is that-
>> There is
also a library called redux-thunk.
>> Okay,
>> This is like imagine you took
the goodness to resign create action.
And also imagine you took redux-thunk,
And you package them up.
What?
>> But we haven't gone over yet.
>> We're going through this,
that's actually we're going to look at now
>> Redux-thunk.
>> Yep, it is.
The middleware is pre wired
in like Redux toolkit for us.
When we did configure store,
it already took the middleware,
the redux-thunk middleware,
put it in there.
The reason we had to do that use app
dispatch is because regular use dispatch
is not aware of thunks.
So the use app dispatch is ready for
thunks.
The store is configured
with the middleware.
This is literally just now a syntactic
sugar utility function for like creating
an action that knows when it when it's
called to initiate the promise, right?
Or in this case or get a promise that
we're returning and our async function.
It will then kick off is pending
action that will go through
any reducer that cares,
right, if it goes well,
it will figure out like the same
name of the function with fulfilled,
and then if it goes poorly rejected.
So it is all of the wiring
of promise.then,
promise.catch before one
of those two things happen.
Those actions,
as soon as this thing is kicked off,
as soon as the like function this creates,
is kicked off and dispatched,
those will fire as appropriate.
And you do not have to think about it or
even really know write anything about
it other than the fact that all
those things that use some kind
of wire by hand are done for you.
And as we do, if I type this correctly,
not type like finger type, but
type is in TypeScript.
If I type it correctly,
it will be fully typed.
So I will get all that for
free without feeling like I have
to figure all that stuff out.
Cuz fetch is pretty like fast and
loose with what it gives you,
even at the response at JSON.
So it's a promise at any,
but if you say here, or
even the return output of the function.
So I can, let's try it both ways.
Well, let's finish writing
the function first.
I'll just say return, response.tasks and
like, it doesn't know what that is.
But if I say that this function
returns a promise, and
there's a little bit you have
to know what you're doing but
it's gonna say, okay, I'm gonna assume
that there are tasks coming out.
So first of all you need to
store it in a variable so
we'll call it const fetchTasks, Let's
look at it real quick, Right?
You can see that is assuming
that tasks come outta here.
Now, there's a little
belief system in here, but
like there's really no way,
no way is a strong word.
Let's go with it, with an asterisk.
There's no way for
telescript to know what an API is gonna
give you from an external system.
It can't scan that,
could you turn protobufs into types.
Yes, but
that's just the same way of, yeah,
you can generate types from a API spec but
truly, that's always the honor system.
There's some bound to your system where
you have to deal with your trust issues,
right?
This is saying like I expect
what I expect to come
back from this API is an array of tasks,
right?
Cool.
It's like my thing where it's
like when they say that,
there's the front-end went down and
like the front end didn't go down.
The backend went down and
that took the front-end down with it.
When they report uptimes that
a company used to work at, OK.
So we've got that in place.
And now we need to deal with what do
we wanna do when this stuff happens?
And so that lives in extra reducer land.
And we just say, hey, builder,
just add a case for you.
And we're gonna say something along the
lines of like I don't know like this case,
I don't have to really think about it
at all I don't even want to know why so
I don't know fetch tasks and
we've got fulfilled rejected.
It's also got all the methods that
our function has unfortunately, so
we got to deal with that too.
It's there hiding that you can see
pending, you can see fulfilled,
you can see rejected, but
also it is a function so
it has prototype and
the rest of that fun stuff.
Awesome, so say that hey,
when it's fulfilled,
what I wanted to do is update the entire
state of the entities at this point.
And so we just say state, Action.
We'll peek at those in a second.
It's gonna be the same
thing we saw last time.
It knows that this is
gonna be a set of tasks.
There is also a second thing that
I will talk about in a second but
let's put this in place first.
>> Can you use instead of fulfilled,
success?
>> The ones that it's gonna give me for
free are fulfilled, rejected, and pending.
You can see that this was given
to me by it automatically.
>> So you no longer need to catch
the errors in the action itself.
>> Not in the action itself,
I would probably,
guess you notice this is some very
optimistic code up here, right,
I just assumed my network
requests is gonna go well, right?
You can also there's a second
argument in here we'll
talk about a second I'll
show it to you real quick.
And this object.
I'm about to take a look at in a second.
But there are ways to show like,
what you want the projected
value to be and cuz promises.
The fetch API and other promises
the fetch API only catches or
throws if there's no network, right?
If the fetch API comes back, and
it's got a 500 error or a 404.
That's technically a resolved promise.
Not what data that you wanted,
right, or were expecting,
but it is technically a resolved promise.
And so you have to deal with those things.
And there are ways to kind of
deal with those cases as well.
If the response status is greater than or
equal to 400 or something like that,
you can do various things in there.
Let's finish this part up first.
So we got that.
And we say, hey, it's fulfilled.
You can see the action on there.
You will see the request status
that's populated there as well.
And that all kind of fits in there.
And what we'll do is we'll say
when that happens, we'll just say,
State.entities, I think I'm just
returning the array of tasks.
At that point, that's why I pulled the,
I said response.tasks, right?
Yeah, it's just an array of tasks,
state.entities Equals action.payload.
It knows that that's an array of
tasks because I said that that's what
the promise function returns.
And so I just can swap out
that initial empty array with
the loaded ones in this case, right?
Let's go ahead and get rid of preloading
the data to see if that works now.
This action was never kicked off.
So immediately it's not gonna work.
But ideally, so
say this is an empty array just
don't get yelled at by various maps later.
So we do need to kick this off somewhere.
This is again, one of the things that I
think is cool about Redux overuse reducer.
And user reducer is great to be clear.
That's not a slag on user reducer,
but user reducer is a hook,
which means what has to happen
before user reducer gets called.
A component needs to be mounted,
which means you have gone and
you have rendered the entire UI.
Use effects are the last thing,
last-ish thing that happens
in the component lifecycle or like
we've got a UI, let's go get some data.
I usually like it in the other
direction or at the very least,
do them at the same time, right?
>> Is it layout effect?
>> You still, use layout effect
is pretty late in the game too.
It is before use effect, but at the end.
Yeah, it's like second to last place.
I think it's, yeah,
I forget the exact order.
I used to like have it
completely memorized.
Those all work and
because they're simple and again,
it's one of those things which is like,
for some things, it doesn't really matter.
Do the simple thing sometimes, you
don't need to bring in the big guns for
everything.
But generally speaking, so the cool thing
about this is since it's just an action,
you get to choose when it gets fired.
You can choose, to have it fired,
when a certain button is clicked, right?
There are bindings in react router, right?
So you can choose to do it, right?
You can have actions fire
based on route changes and
do stuff, right, you can choose to do it.
When a mouse hovers over a button and
you want to preload data into your store,
right?
You fire this action when you deem fit.
And you don't have a lot of
things telling you what to do.
In fact, one of the things that we can do
is make sure I export this function cuz
that seems to be my theme lately.
We can go ahead and for instance,
when the app cuz the tasks
in my task management app,
that seems like a relatively core feature,
right?
So what I can do is like cool.
We're getting ready to start up the app.
I've got the store here.
I could theoretically say while we're
getting the app all like bootstrapped up,
why don't you go ahead And
fetch the tasks.
Right, so this is happening
as much as anything happens
concurrently in the browser with
the initial rendering of the app.
Now let's go see And
I'm gonna pull up cuz I
don't see tasks that, so
it's currently not firing.
Did I save that file?
So if you got, if you don't call
functions, they don't dispatch anything.
So it is a function.
It's not just, you call it that is what,
it's an action creator
just like anything else.
So you can see it goes pending,
and it goes to field.
And those are unique actions
that are added that are fired.
So pending, What's really cool about this
is I can set a loading indicator, right?
And when fulfilled happens,
I go ahead set loading to false, right?
And it's not like setting.
I can just do that as actions that flow
through the system, and what's really
cool about this is let's say we
are waiting for the current user to load.
Maybe multiple parts of
my UI care about that.
And what probably would have been either
prop drilling or some other stuff before,
maybe other reducers, other pieces
of state management care about that.
User reducer is awesome, right?
But it is bound to exactly that reducer,
this idea that they go through
all of your state everywhere.
And it's like, okay, multiple
things might wanna get kicked off.
The current user and
their auth token, it just landed.
Go and get all the data, right?
And multiple things can kick off or
update things based on that and care.
And I think it becomes
a really powerful abstraction.